*Todo*

Status effects
Hunker down
Hidden Movement
Targeted abilities (heal)
AOE effects (explosion)
Tile effects (smoke)

*Done*

Saving
Water
Disjoint UI from game model
Optimise Blueprint graphics mode
Walk through light cover
Overwatch
Main menu
Full Screen and scrolling
Support for custom units, custom weapons, multiple stages in editor



*Ideas*

Moving target: bonus to def proportional to move if attacked while moving, or ended turn with movement or melee.
Shock: malus to def and acc proportional to HP loss, doubled for hp loss in previous turn. Some attacks give extra shock.
Prone: assumed willingly, or as a result of some atttacks. Disables step-out. -50% def against melee.
Observe action: -25% def, bonus to vision range and acc next turn.
Focus fire: up to 25% accuracy against same unmoving target, up to 10% accuracy against nearby targets.
Stress/Alert: units in combat (alerted) accumulated stress for each action depending on it's complexity. Stress gives penalty to acc and def.
Units not in combat slowly lose stress, but have reduced vision and can only make 1 move action per turn.
Smoke: reduces acc for all shots through, in, or from it. Reduces visibility (?). Destroying any obstacle creates a small smoke cloud.
Cover fire: each one making any action in target area has a chance to be shot at reduced acc. Reduces def.

*Key concept*

~Stress and exhaustion~

Stress (abbreviated as SP - Stress Points) is a variable unit stat similar to HP or AP. 
Accumulates fast when doing any activity, or when reacting to something (such as being shot).
At the end of side's turn, is halved, but percentage of it (~5%) is converted to Exhaustion.

Each points of Stress or Exhaustion gives 1% penalty to Acc and Def.

Stress causes:

Shoot: 10SP
Half-move: 10SP
Being shot at: up to 5SP (may be lower depending on hit chance and damage), 
Taking damage: up to 10SP depending on damage
Taking action when at 0AP: SP is DOUBLED after action is finished. 
Consequentive actions when at 0AP also cost 5,10,15etc SP, applied after doubling.
Dodging fatal shot: if below 50SP and above 1HP, at the cost of 50SP unit can automatically make fatal shot a graze, remaining at 1HP.

Stress recovery:

Successful attack: up to 5SP for one victim.
KO enemy: 5SP in addition to previous bonus, once per victim. 
Also, recover 1 Exhaustion Point to entire attacker's side, and adds 1 EP to entire victim's side.

~Focus~

After attacking or doing other directional action (such as moving) unit gains 10 focus, stacking up to 30, in that direction.
Special action "Focus" gives 30 Focus in direction of choice straight away.
Special action "Look around" removes Focus.
Focus gives bonus to Acc against and Def from enemies in that direction. 
Bonus is reduced gradually proportionally to angle between Focus direction and vector to enemy, becoming a penalty after certain angle (60%?).

~Velocity~

When moving, average step direction times speed stat becomes unit's velocity, effective when movement starts.
Non-movement actions reduce velocity by certain percentage. 
For example, shooting pistol remove 25% of velocity, 50% for shotgun, 75% for full-sized rifle.
At the beginning of side's turn velocity is cut by 50%.

Velocity gives penalty to Acc both fo moving unit and for enemies shooting at it. 
Penalty depends heavily on angle between velocity and vector to enemy.
Unit gets low penalty for enemies ahead, moderate at the sides and heavy for units behind.
Enemies get low penalty against unit moving to or from them, and moderate for unit moving sideways.

Penalty also depends on weapon: heavy weapon and slow projectiles get big penalty, 
light weaapons (such as pistols and shotguns) and melee has low penalty.

Certain melee attack can get damage bonuses and penalties depending on attack vector and velocity.

Velocity sets Focus of 10 in it's direction.

~Reaction Fire~

Reaction fire costs 1AP and only happens when expected damage (weapon damage with all bonuses/penalties x hit chance) is 1HP or more.
When it's done in reaction to movement, it happens at the moment when expected damage is maximal (for example, when target is closest).
